Create a device that would monitor the temperature of a fireplace insert and cycle circulating fans to automatically move air around the room when the temperature exceeded a preset threshold.

Hardware:
Arduino Uno
12v power supply
1 Channel relay module (5v - 250v/10A)
4 - 12v - 75mm Cooling fans (rated at .26 amps)
TMP36 temperature sensor
20ft Ethernet cable
Mounting rail for cooling fans
Wiring block for voltage distribution to fans (fan side)
Small cardboard box to mount Arduino and relay module into (power side)

Tools:
Soldering iron
Solder
Heat shrink tubing (optional)
Various wires to hookup the components


This describes the hardware setup:
Arduino side (away from heat source and near wall power):
    The 12v power supply plugs into the wall outlet (120v).
    The 12v side of the power supply powers the Arduino's external power port.
    The 12v power supply ran one leg through the relay module.
    The Arduino switched the fans off and on using the relay.

Fan / temperature sensor side (directly behind stove):
    The TMP36 temperature sensor is co-located with the fans behind the wood stove.


Ethernet cable was used to:
    1. Send voltage down to the fans and temperature sensor
    2. Monitor data from the temperature sensor


Pseudocode:
Capture readings from the temperature sensor every second and add the results to an accumulator for 3 minutes.
If the average of the readings (number of readings / number of seconds) exceeds the preset power on threshold
    Power on the fans
    Clear the accumulator and restart monitoring the temp sensor
If the average does not exceed the preset power on threshold
    Clear the accumulator and restart monitoring the temp sensor


Challenges:
Have you ever tried to use a cordless drill to make a hole in a small fan case without running the bit into the fan blade?
It is not as easy as you might imagine.
I had originally intended to power the Arduino using a wall wart with 5v power.
However, when the relay was switched on, it sufficiently altered the power going to the temperature sensor that the readings were skewed.
This is not critical since I could have changed the monitor threshold as a result.


Conclusion:
System works as designed.
A single pair was used to carry the 12v to the fans. I was worried this may not be able to carry the amperage needed to power the 4 - 12v fans.
The ethernet cable did not experience any heat issues that I could detect.
However, providing 12v to the Arduino seemed to make the external power port warm.
During idle, the corner of the PCB that received the 12v ran at 90 degrees fahrenheit.
During operation that same corner ran at 120 degrees fahrenheit.


